Chapter 4, Subqueries
ISTA-420, T-SQL Fundamentals
Readings
Read pages, Chapter 4, 133 – 149 in the T-SQL Fundamentals book.
Homework questions
1. In your own words, what is a subquery?
- A subquery is a query that sits inside of another query.

2. In your own words, what is a self contained subquery?
- A self-contained subqueries are independent of the tables in the outer query.

3. In your own words, what is a correlated subquery?
- Correlated subqueries are queries that refer to the attributes from the tables that appear in the outer query.
- It cannot run by itself, it depends on its outside enviroment to run

4. Give an example of a subquery that returns a single value. When would you use this kind of subquery?
- subquery that returns a single value is called a sclar query. I would use this query when I want to get a single value from a row in a table

SELECT orderid
From Sales.orders
Where empid = (select E.empid 
From Hr.Employees AS E
WHERE E.lastname LIKE N'C%');

5. Give an example of a subquery that returns multiple values. When would you use this kind of subquery?
- a subquery that returns mutiple values is called a multivalued subquery
SELECT custid, orderid, orderdate,empid
FROM Sales.Orders 
WHERE custid In 
	(SELECT C.custid
	FROM Sales.Customers AS C 
	WHERE C.country = N'USA');

6. Give an example of a subquery that returns table values. When would you use this kind of subquery?
select customerid, customername from customers where name like = 'Germany';

7. What does the exists predicate do? Give an example.
- Exits predicate accepts a subquery as input and returns True or False
SELECT custid, companyname
FROM Sales.Customers AS C
WHERE country = N'Spain'
	AND EXISTS
		(SELECT * FROM Sales.Orders AS O 
		WHERE O.custid = C.custid);

8. What happens if we use the not operator before a predicate? Give an example.
- If you use NOT EXISTS it will only return one row, it acts like a short-circut and it doesnt process all qualifying rows.
- evaluates to true if false and fale is true

9. When you use exists or not exists with respect to a row in a database, does it return two or three values? Explain your answer. 
- It returns two values, because it either exist or does not exist.

10. How would you a subquery to calculate aggregates? For example, you want to calculate yearly sales of a product, and you also want to keep a running sum of total sales. Explain how you would use a subquery to do this.
- You could use the correlated subquery against a second instance of the view to calculate the runnning-total quantity and the subquery hould filter all rows where the order year is smaller than or equal to the current year.